# Changes to HashiCorp Packer You Might Not Be Aware Of

Hey everyone, in this quick video I want to talk about changes to **HashiCorp Packer** that you might not be aware of.

Now, if you're learning Packer for the first time now, these changes won't impact you as they're already part of the course you're going to use. You'll learn how to use Packer with all these changes in mind.

However, if you have used **HashiCorp Packer** in the past, these changes will be very important to you. So make sure to keep watching.

## Major Changes in Packer Version 1.10

As part of the final step in moving towards these external plugins that **HashiCorp** has been talking about for quite a while, **Packer version 1.10** will actually stop bundling all these official plugins with its binary releases moving forward.

This is a major change in the product regarding how **HashiCorp** manages everything in the past.

### What Does This Change Mean for You?

Let's look at the problem first.

Bundling all these plugins that you're used to with Packer really prevented **HashiCorp** from releasing these plugins separately from **Packer** itself. Every time somebody fixed a bug, they had to open a pull request on **Packer**, get it approved and merged, and then wait until the new release of **Packer** to benefit from these changes. 

This was not ideal, and these small changes took forever to be released.

Another reason a change was needed is that **HashiCorp** continued to bundle all the code for the plugins and their dependencies. This made **Packer** heavier, increased the binary size, and took up more memory on the machine running **Packer**.

### Similarities to Other HashiCorp Products

This move that **HashiCorp** has done is very similar to how many other **HashiCorp** products function, such as **Terraform**. With **Terraform**, you have Terraform core, and then you download and install all the separate plugins or modules that you need for a task, without having to download unnecessary modules or providers.

### What's the Impact of These Changes?

Because of these changes, the most significant change that you will see with **Packer** is the inclusion of a **new required plugins block** for each plugin that you need to use. 

Additionally, you will now need to run the `packer init` command to **download and manage** those plugins.

### What Does This Mean for You in the Course?

For this course, we've already updated all the labs to reflect these changes, so you should be good to go!

## Support

As instructors, we are dedicated to ensuring that all of our students get the help they need in a timely manner throughout the course. Please don't hesitate to reach out if we can help with anything, and we hope you enjoy the course!
