# Variable Names
- A variable can have a short name (like x and y) or a more descriptive name (age, carname, total_volume).

## Rules for Python variables:

- A variable name must start with a letter or the underscore character
- A variable name cannot start with a number
- A variable name can only contain alpha-numeric characters and underscores (A-z, 0-9, and _ )
- Variable names are case-sensitive (age, Age and AGE are three different variables)
- A variable name cannot be any of the Python keywords.

## Example
- Legal variable names:
   ```
   myvar = "John"
   my_var = "John"
   _my_var = "John"
   myVar = "John"
   MYVAR = "John"
   myvar2 = "John"
   ```
- Illegal variable names:
  ```
  2myvar = "John"
  my-var = "John"
  my var = "John"
  ```  
# Python Variables - Assign Multiple Values

- Python allows you to assign values to multiple variables in one line:

  ## Example
     ``` 
     x, y, z = "Orange", "Banana", "Cherry"
     print(x)
     print(y)
     print(z)
     ```
# One Value to Multiple Variables

- And you can assign the same value to multiple variables in one line:

   ## Example
      ```
      x = y = z = "Orange"
      print(x)
      print(y)
      print(z)

      ```
#  Unpack a Collection

- If you have a collection of values in a list, tuple etc. Python allows you to extract the values into variables. This is called unpacking.

  ## Example
    ```
    fruits = ["apple", "banana", "cherry"]
    x, y, z = fruits
    print(x)
    print(y)
    print(z)
    ```

# Python - Output Variables

- The Python print() function is often used to output variables.

   ## Example:
   ```
   x = "Python is awesome"
   print(x) 
   ```

#   Python - Global Variables
##  The global Keyword
- Normally, when you create a variable inside a function, that variable is local, and can only be used inside that function.

- To create a global variable inside a function, you can use the global keyword.
 
      ```
       def myfunc():
       global x
       x = "fantastic"

       myfunc()

       print("Python is " + x)

      ```
